# sb-capstone
Starbucks Data Science Capstone Project

### Table of contents
1. [Installation](#installation)
2. [Project Motivation](#motivation)
3. [File Descriptions](#file-rec)
4. [Results](#results)
5. [Licensing, Authors, and Acknowledgements](#licensing)

## Installation <a name="installation"></a>

This should run by default with Anaconda installation with python 3.9 or later. Requires Jupyter Lab/Notebook. 

Installing required libraries.

* Install external dependencies using `pip install -r requirements.txt`
* Install required local library by going in the root and running `pip install -e .`

After these are done, feel free to explore the notebooks. If there are missing files or models, run the notebooks in order to generate them.

### Experiment Library

Doing `pip install -e .` in root will have `sb_capstone` experiment library available. Here's how to quickly use it. Refer to notebook `07 - Implementation.ipynb` notebook for more details.

```python
from sb_capstone.experiment import(
    receive_offer,
    select_offer
)

# pass in the profile dataframe, this returns customer id and whether the customer should receive offer.
receive_offer(profile)

# once you select customer who will receive offer you can run the following to get the recommended offers.
select_offer(profile)
```

For instances that you are dealing with anonymous customer, the two methods provided what values should these customers get.

```python
# if you want anonymous customers to receive offer you can do the following
receive_offer(profile, default_value=True)

# if you want anonymouse customer to have offers recommended to them, for example we know which one are safe to give (6 and 7 offer)
select_offer(profile, default_offers=[6, 7])
```

## Project Motivation<a name="motivation"></a>

This is my capstone project for Udacity Data Scientist Nanodegree. I've selected this problem because I am a coffee lover myself and I want to know more about how coffee is related to customers. The data given, there's already an experiment perform by Starbucks, however, the offer given is based on randomization. For any test, this is a good start, and I want to learn the result from this initial experiement.

This project aims to answer these 3 questions:

1. Which offer yields the best results? 
2. Which off provides the best revenue? 
3. How can we make use of the result to improve the app using machine learning?

By the end of this project, I will try to find out how can we move to the next step to optimizing the offers for customers.

## File Descriptions <a name="file-rec"></a>

This project follows `CRISP-DM` approach organized in the notebooks under `notebooks` folder. Some of the notebooks relies on outputs from the previous one so it's highly recommended to run them in order in case you ran into any problem.

Experiment library and any code related to data processing are located  under `sb_capstone` folder. This library is installable from root using `pip install -e .`

Raw data is the only one pushed in the repository, processed files are ignored and generated by the notebooks. Raw data are located at `data/raw` folder.

## Results<a name="results"></a>

The randomized offer experiments did not yield significant results in terms of increasing the response rate. However, the incremental revenue increase when users receive offer, which may conclude that the customer is more likely to spend more when there are offers. Most effective offers are the discount types with medium (10) difficulty. The longer the duration, the better the results.

A way for us to improve the offer targeting is to give out only to customers that are affected by the offer, either through response or through revenue. We provided library that can be used when crafting the next experiment.

Summary of the study results is located under `docs/results.md` file.

## Licensing, Authors, Acknowledgements<a name="licensing"></a>

MIT License.